It all begins with an idea. Our first task in ENC1102, developing a research proppsal, allowed me to truly understand how a viable research prompt really looks like when the latter is situated within the context of writing studies. Initially, my research question asked "how can the quality of mathematical education be improved such that students find it easier to engage and comprehend its content?" (Niebles, "Initial Research Project Proposal", 2). Although it initially sounded like an appropriate research question, it happened to be highly disconnected from the context of writing studies, given that it focused on the issues with mathematical education themselves rather than the conversation surrounding them, and also lacked a sufficiently specific scope.Therefore, after obtaining some much-needed feedback, the research question I ended up with was the following: "What arguments are the public making about the issues with mathematical education, and how are those constructed?" (Niebles, "Data Report", 6). This final question was more guided, clear, and relevant to my chosen topic of mathematical education. Understanding the flaws of this proposal helped me solidify my foundations in what is perhaps the most important aspect of research: Asking the right questions.

Once the maturity of one's research ideas gets to a point where a direction is resolute, the crucial phase of conducting secondary research begins. This second major task given to us in ENC1102 consisted in gathering diverse pieces of pertinent information from scholarly sources in order to begin building a central argument, which is meant to carry one's research thesis throughout further stages. This task required extensive analysis of other authors' arguments, with a special emphasis on connecting the information originating from such sources. All of the latter was done using a data table divided into several sections, each one with its own focus (Niebles, "Synthesis Matrix"). Exploring this information in such a way helped me make my own conclusions, thus helping me contribute knowledge. Additionally, the process of understanding the writing of others, which requires particular attention to credibility, led me to develop my information literacy skills.

Our third major task in ENC1102 consisted in developing a review of literature using the secondarily-sourced information we collected in the previously showcased process work (the synthesis matrix). As it turns out, organizing a volume of information whose objective is sto constitute a serious academic article is not an easy task. Gathering appropriate ideas and laying them out in one's thought process in such a away that they make sense is much different from actually producing a piece of writing which coherently organizes these ideas in consideration of one's central argument. As such, I needed to branch out from my typical, rather rudimentary style of information organization, which mainly consisted in stating everythiing and explaining its meaning without any further action. For this process work, I needed to connect my ideas, changing the style of my writing and its organization in order to support my goals. As such, the review of literature was a fantastic exercise in multiple ways of writing.

Once one has enough appropriately organized secondary information with a strong connection to one's central argument, it becomes time to conduct primary research. As a researcher, I was surprised to see how much rigor one must abide by in order to conduct credible research. I found it especially surprising that we had to gain CITI certification in order to assert our credibility. However, it all helped me understand the workings of conducting primary research to the extent that I found myself comfortable in conducting my own without the compunction of putting out work whose credibility is potentially lacking. Using a survey with three distinct kids of questions (multiple choice, scale-based, and open response), which I chose by understanding the different kinds of primary research and their advantages, and refined by understanding what writing entails effective surveys, I was able to collect simple yet meaningful data from a pertinenet target audience and organize it in a comprehensive way using techniques such as coding in order to appropriately dispose it for analysis, which resulted to be particularly easy thanks to the rigor of my developed primary research techniques.

The final task of the research process, formulating one's own scholarly article, is where all the ideas and information developed previously are meant to come together. In developing this article, I realized the importance of seeing the big picture. Sure, one may have excelled at conducting primary research, and have a beautifully organized array of secondary information from the most credible, apt sources. However, one's entire research process can fall apart if both of these pieces aren't developed with the big picture in mind. Perhaps one's primary research is excellent, but lacks a relevant connection with one's otherwise flawless primary research. Understanding that every aspect of the research process is a moving part, and that good research consists in the sum of such parts rather than the excellence of each one on its own is crucial to presenting good research. As such, exceptional organizational skills must be put forth in order to bring the research process to its closure. Although my process was not perfect, and attempting to stitch all the pieces together was not as straightforward as I'd wished, through learning the above lessons, I managed to produce a coherent research document in the end, which clearly answers its initial prompt.
